Default Topology Spread constraints (#19170)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-topology-spread-constraints.md

    
### Cluster-level default constraints

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="alpha" >}}

It is possible to set default topology spread constraints for a cluster. Default
topology spread constraints are applied to a pod iff:
- It doesn't define any constraints in its `.spec.topologySpreadConstraints`.
- It belongs to a service, replication controller, replica set or stateful set.

Default constraints can be set as part of the `PodTopologySpread` plugin args
in a [scheduling profile](/docs/reference/kube-scheduler/profiles).
The constraints are specified with the same [API above](#api), except that
`labelSelector` must be empty. The selectors are calculated from the services,
replication controllers, replica sets or stateful sets that the Pod belongs to.

An example configuration might look like follows:

```yaml
...
pluginConfig:
  - name: PodTopologySpread
    args:
      defaultConstraints:
        - maxSkew: 1
          topologyKey: failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone
          whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
```

{{< note >}}
The score produced by default scheduling constraints might conflict with the 

> score produced by the `DefaultPodTopologySpread` plugin.

Reviewer: Add a link to `DefaultPodTopologySpread` plugin?

Author: to the code? Or maybe just the doc that contains the plugins list?

Reviewer: nope, to the doc.

Author: Done

    and you know that "zoneC" must be excluded. In this case, you can compose the yaml as below, so that "mypod" will be placed onto "zoneB" instead of "zoneC". Similarly `spec.nodeSelector` is also respected.

    {{< codenew file="pods/topology-spread-constraints/one-constraint-with-nodeaffinity.yaml" >}}
    

> ### Cluster-level default constraints

Reviewer: Should we highlight it as "soft" default constraints?

Author: It is both

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="alpha" >}}

It is possible to set default topology spread constraints for a cluster. Default

> topology spread constraints are applied to a pod iff:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
topology spread constraints are applied to a Pod if, and only if:
```

Author: Done

> - It doesn't define any constraints in its `.spec.topologySpreadConstraints`.

Reviewer: Add an empty line above, otherwise `-` won't indent well.

Author: Done

- It doesn't define any constraints in its `.spec.topologySpreadConstraints`.
- It belongs to a service, replication controller, replica set or stateful set.

Default constraints can be set as part of the `PodTopologySpread` plugin args
in a [scheduling profile](/docs/reference/scheduling/profiles).
The constraints are specified with the same [API above](#api), except that
`labelSelector` must be empty. The selectors are calculated from the services,
replication controllers, replica sets or stateful sets that the Pod belongs to.

An example configuration might look like follows:

```yaml

> ...

Reviewer 2: What does the start of this YAML document look like? Readers might assume it's a Pod manifest, similar to (from earlier):
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  ...
```
&hellip;would they be wrong to make that assumption?

Author: Added, and yes, that was the wrong assumption :(

...
pluginConfig:
  - name: PodTopologySpread
    args:
      defaultConstraints:
        - maxSkew: 1
          topologyKey: failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone
          whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway

> ```

Reviewer: Although there are different indenting styles in YAML, here I prefer to keep `-` at the same level with its parent, where all other yamls in this are using this style:

```yaml
...
pluginConfig:
- name: PodTopologySpread
  args:
    defaultConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
```

Author: Done
